DEIR AL-BALAH, Gaza Strip (AP) — Desperate Palestinians scrambled for escape from northern Gaza on Saturday or huddled by the thousands at a hospital in the target zone in hopes it would be spared, as Israel intensified warnings of an imminent offensive by air, ground and sea following Hamas militants’ deadly rampage in Israel a week ago.

While workers at an Israeli military base continued efforts through the Jewish Sabbath to identify the more than 1,300 people killed in the Oct. 7 assault, Israel dropped leaflets from the air and redoubled warnings on social media for more than 1 million Gaza residents to move south.

The military says it is trying to clear away civilians ahead of a concentrated campaign against Hamas militants in the north, including in what it said were underground hideouts in Gaza City. Hamas urged people to stay in their homes.

The U.N. and aid groups say such a rapid exodus along with Israel’s siege of the territory would cause untold human suffering. The World Health Organization said the evacuation “could be tantamount to a death sentence” for the more than 2,000 patients in northern hospitals, including newborns in incubators and people in intensive care.

Gaza’s humanitarian crisis already was mounting Saturday amid a growing shortage of water and medical supplies under a week-old Israeli blockade, which has also forced electrical plants to shut down without fuel.

In Gaza City, Haifa Khamis al-Shurafa crowded into a car with six family members, fleeing to the south in the darkness.

“We don’t deserve this,” Shurafa said, before leaving her home city. “We didn’t kill anyone.”

The evacuation directive covers an area of 1.1 million residents, or about half the territory’s population. The Israeli military said “hundreds of thousands” of Palestinians had heeded the warning and headed south. It gave Palestinians a six-hour window that ended Saturday afternoon to travel safely within Gaza along two main routes.

In Israel, meanwhile, workers at a miIitary base received special rabbinical approval to continue identifying bodies of the more than 1,300 people, most civilians, killed by Hamas. Work is normally halted on Saturday, the Jewish Sabbath.

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu visited Be’eri and Kfar Azza, two southern border communities where Hamas militants slaughtered dozens of Israelis, to meet with soldiers and tour the ruins of bloodied homes. Netanyahu has faced criticism that his government has not done enough to meet with relatives of the victims.

Hundreds of relatives of the scores of Israelis and foreigners captured by Hamas and taken to Gaza gathered outside the Israeli Defense Ministry in Tel Aviv, demanding their release.

“This is my cry out to the world: Please help bring my family, my wife and three kids,” said Avihai Brodtz of Kfar Azza. Many expressed anger toward the government, saying they still have no information about their loved ones.

In a nationally broadcast address Saturday night, Israel’s chief military spokesman, Rear Adm. Daniel Hagari, accused Hamas of trying to use civilians as human shields and issued a new appeal to Gaza residents to move south.

“We are going to attack Gaza City very broadly soon,” he said, without giving a timetable for the attack against the 40-kilometer-long (25-mile-long) territory.

“The Palestinian civilians in Gaza are not our enemies,” an Israeli military spokesman, John Conricus, said. “We don’t assess them as such, and we don’t target them as such. We are trying to do the right thing.”

Israel has called up some 360,000 military reserves and massed troops and tanks along the border with Gaza. U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said late Saturday that the U.S. was moving in a second carrier strike group, the USS Dwight D. Eisenhower, as a deterrence to any regional actors seeking to widen the war.

Palestinian militants have fired more than 5,500 rockets into Israel since the fighting erupted, the Israeli military said.

Hamas remained defiant. In a televised speech Saturday, Ismail Haniyeh, a top official, said that “all the massacres” will not break the Palestinian people.

Fighting continued in the run-up to the expected offensive, with Hamas launching rockets into Israel and Israel carrying out strikes in Gaza.

An Israeli airstrike near the Jabaliya refugee camp in northern Gaza killed at least 27 people and wounded another 80, Gaza health authorities said.

Most of the victims were women and children, the authorities said. Doctors from Kamal Edwan Hospital shared chaotic footage of charred and disfigured bodies.

It was not clear how many Palestinians remained in northern Gaza by Saturday afternoon, said Juliette Touma, a spokesperson for the U.N. agency for Palestinian refugees. An estimated 1 million people have been displaced in Gaza in one week, she said.

At Gaza City’s main hospital, al-Shifa, a crowd of men, women and children that medical officials estimated at 35,000 crammed into bloodied hallways and on hospital grounds, sitting under trees as well as inside the building’s lobby, hoping to be protected from the fighting.

“People think this is the only safe space after their homes were destroyed and they were forced to flee,” said Dr. Medhat Abbas, a Health Ministry official.

Basic necessities like food, fuel and drinking water were running out because of the complete Israeli siege.

Water has stopped coming out of taps across the territory. Amal Abu Yahia, a 25-year-old pregnant mother in the Jabaliya refugee camp, said she waited anxiously for the few minutes when contaminated water trickles from the pipes in her basement. She rations it, prioritizing her 5-year-old son and 3-year-old daughter. She said she is drinking so little herself, she only urinates every other day.

Near the coast, the only tap water is contaminated with Mediterranean Sea water because of the lack of sanitation facilities. Mohammed Ibrahim, 28, said his neighbors in Gaza City have taken to drinking the salt water.

The Israeli military’s evacuation order demands the territory’s entire population cram into the southern half of Gaza as Israel continues strikes, including in the south.

Rami Swailem said he and at least five families in his building decided to stay put in his apartment near Gaza City. “We are rooted in our lands,” he said. “We prefer to die in dignity and face our destiny.”

Others were looking desperately for ways to evacuate. “We need a number for drivers from Gaza to the south, it is necessary #help,” read a post on social media.

The U.N. refugee agency for Palestinians expressed concern for those who could not leave, “particularly pregnant women, children, older persons and persons with disabilities,” saying they must be protected. The agency also called for Israel to not target civilians, hospitals, schools, clinics and U.N. locations.

Al-Shifa hospital was receiving hundreds of wounded every hour and had used up 95% of its medical supplies, hospital director Mohammad Abu Selim said. Water is scarce and the fuel powering its generators is dwindling.

“The situation inside the hospital is miserable in every sense of the word,” he said. “The operating rooms don’t stop.”

Thousands of people crammed into U.N.-run schools across Gaza.

“I came here with my children. We slept on the ground. We don’t have a mattress, or clothes,” said Howeida al-Zaaneen, 63, from the northern town of Beit Hanoun. “I want to go back to my home, even if it is destroyed.”

The Gaza Health Ministry said Saturday that over 2,200 people have been killed in the territory, including 724 children and 458 women. The Hamas communications office said Israel has destroyed over 7,000 housing units so far.

At Gaza’s Rafah crossing into Egypt, announcement of an agreement to briefly open the closed crossing to allow foreigners to escape brought hopeful crowds to the gates Saturday. But any deal appeared to have fallen through, with the crossing yet to open by nightfall.

Some 1,500 people in Gaza are estimated to hold Western passports, including about 500 Americans, along with citizens from other parts of the world.

A ground assault in densely populated Gaza would likely bring even higher casualties on both sides in brutal house-to-house fighting.

U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken met with Saudi Foreign Minister Faisal bin Farhan in Riyadh on Saturday, and both called for Israel to protect civilians in Gaza.

“As Israel pursues its legitimate right to defend its people and to trying to ensure that this never happens again, it is vitally important that all of us look out for civilians,” Blinken said.

Krauss reported from Jerusalem. Associated Press writers Isabel DeBre and Julia Frankel in Jerusalem, Samya Kullab in Baghdad, Samy Magdy in Cairo, Kareem Chehayeb in Beirut, Ashraf Sweilam in El-Arish, Egypt, and Matthew Lee in Riyadh contributed to this report.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

UN Security Council Calls for ‘Urgent and Extended’ Humanitarian Pauses in Gaza and Immediate Release of Hostages
9479TH MEETING (PM)
SC/15496
15 NOVEMBER 2023
In a late-breaking meeting today, the Security Council adopted resolution 2712 (2023) by a vote of 12 in favour to none against, with 3 abstentions (Russian Federation, United Kingdom, United States), by which it called for urgent and extended humanitarian pauses and corridors through the Gaza Strip to facilitate the provision of essential goods and services.

Further to the text, the Council called for the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages held by Hamas and other groups, especially children, and urged the parties to refrain from depriving the civilians in Gaza of life-saving services and humanitarian assistance.

Prior to the adoption, the Russian Federation’s delegate introduced an amendment, which he described as the “lowest common denominator, lower than which the Council cannot allow itself to fall”.  The language, he said, repeats the General Assembly’s resolution, adopted by a majority on 26 October.

The amendment was defeated by a vote of 5 in favour (Brazil, China, Mozambique, Russian Federation, United Arab Emirates) to 1 against (United States), with 9 abstentions (Albania, Gabon, Ghana, Ecuador, France, Japan, Malta, Switzerland, United Kingdom).

Malta’s representative, introducing the resolution, said it focuses on the plight of children trapped and of those being held hostage.  Its passage would enable urgent rescue and recovery efforts and the medical evacuation of sick or injured children and their caregivers, she said.

Following the vote, Council members weighed in on their positions, with Brazil’s representative noting that the Council’s response, commensurate with the gravity of the situation, was urgent since day one.  He hoped that, if truly and urgently implemented, the text will at least mitigate the dreadful situation.

The representative of the United Arab Emirates, recognizing that the resolution was adopted through difficult negotiations and compromises on all sides, commended Malta’s leadership.  Emphasizing that what emerges from the ruins of Gaza may be the last chance of the Council members to save it, she said that it will need everyone to work together.

China’s representative, noting his support for the text, welcomed any initiative to protect civilians and ease the humanitarian crisis.  He, however, was concerned about the siege of the Al-Shifa Hospital and urged Israel to cease its military operations against civilian facilities.  The Council should stand on the side of justice, he concluded.

Among the three abstentions to the resolution was the United States, whose representative said she could not vote yes on a text that did not condemn Hamas, which set the conflict in motion.  Stressing that the adoption of the resolution will not save lives, she added that to do that, “we all need to support the heroic efforts of the UN and other humanitarian workers in Gaza”.

The Permanent Observer for the State of Palestine emphasized that the Council should have called for a ceasefire a long time ago, stressing that millions of lives hang in the balance.  Urging those present to stop the killing and forced displacements and allow humanitarian aid, he said, “These should not be words in a resolution, but a reality on the ground.”

Israel’s representative said that the text focuses solely on the humanitarian situation and makes no mention of what led up to this moment. Underscoring that his country will continue to do whatever it takes to bring the hostages home, he said “should Hamas choose to lay down their arms, turn themselves in, and hand over the hostages unscathed, this war would end immediately”.

Statements

VASSILY A. NEBENZIA (Russian Federation), speaking before the vote, proposed an oral amendment to the operative paragraph 3bis.  He said that the text repeats operative paragraph 1 of the General Assembly resolution “Illegal Israeli actions in Occupied East Jerusalem and the rest of the Occupied Palestinian Territory” (document A/ES-10/L.25), adopted on 26 October by an overwhelming majority of votes.  “Our proposal does not contain anything unexpected for you,” he stressed, recalling that from the beginning of the crisis, Moscow has been emphasizing the main aim is to achieve ceasefire and end violence.  If this provision is not included in the text, it can make an impression that the Council is “happy to make do exclusively with Israel’s provision of humanitarian pauses at its discretion”.

Expressing regret that the United States has consistently blocked any — even the weakest — reference to this aim, he addressed its representative, saying, “During work on Malta’s draft, you struck out anything that could in any way indicate the need for a cessation of hostilities.  Does this mean that you are in favour of the war in the Middle East continuing indefinitely?”  He said the amendment presented is the “lowest common denominator, lower than which the Council cannot allow itself to fall”.  He added, “Our duty is to save the lives of civilians who have a lethal threat hanging above them.”  He recalled that most of the Council’s delegations supported the proposed text in the General Assembly.

The oral amendment was defeated by a vote of 5 in favour (Brazil, China, Mozambique, Russian Federation, United Arab Emirates) to 1 against (United States), with 9 abstentions (Albania, Gabon, Ghana, Ecuador, France, Japan, Malta, Switzerland, United Kingdom).

VANESSA FRAZIER (Malta), presenting the draft resolution, said that the humanitarian crisis unfolding in Gaza, ever since the horrific terror attacks of 7 October, is deeply troubling.  On that day, children were killed and taken hostage.  Since then, more than 4,600 are reported to have been killed in Gaza, and some 1,500 are deemed missing.  Many are likely trapped beneath the rubble.  The lives of newborn and premature babies at Al-Shifa Hospital are in grave and imminent danger.  More than 1 million people are displaced, and more than half are children.

The draft resolution aims to ensure respite from the current nightmare in Gaza and give hope to the families of all victims, she said.  It focuses on the plight of children trapped and of those being held hostage.  Over the past week, in an effort to achieve a “balanced and operational” text, Malta held extensive consultations with Council members, interested parties, countries in the region and humanitarian organizations.  The text is focused and humanitarian in scope.  It provides for the establishment of urgent humanitarian pauses and corridors throughout the Gaza Strip for “a sufficient number” of days. Such measures would facilitate the continuous and unhindered provision of essential goods and services, which are important to the well-being of civilians, especially children.

Its passage also would enable urgent rescue and recovery efforts, including for missing children in damaged and destroyed buildings, and the medical evacuation of sick or injured children and their caregivers, she said.  The text underlines and reiterates children’s special vulnerable status.  It calls for the safe and unconditional release of hostages, especially children, that are being held by Hamas and other groups.  This too, is a clear humanitarian imperative which cannot be ignored.  International humanitarian law provides general protection for children as persons taking no part in hostilities.  They enjoy special protection as persons who are particularly vulnerable.  “Our votes today translate into real human lives, the lives of thousands of children, civilians and heroic humanitarian workers,” she stressed.

LANA ZAKI NUSSEIBEH (United Arab Emirates), speaking in explanation of position before the vote, said since the start of the conflict the Council has been unable to produce anything that would alleviate the suffering of the people of Gaza and that outside the UN building it looks indifferent to this suffering.  Today, the Council has an opportunity to begin changing that perception; it can come together under one aim — the plight of children, which has been the North Star of the Council during this conflict.  It can come together for the Palestinian children and other Palestinians sheltering, the Israeli children and other Israelis still hostage, and UN and humanitarian workers trying to alleviate suffering on the ground.

She added that the text is what humanitarian workers have been calling for as the bare minimum to do their work.  She highlighted that the resolution will also allow rescue missions for those trapped under rubble and will mean sick and injured children can be evacuated.  She noted that the text is unequivocal that all parties comply with their obligations under international law.  It also rejects the forced displacement of Palestinians.  Many are already refugees, and recently 80 per cent of Gazans have been uprooted again, she added. The monitoring mechanisms provided for in the text can create space for humanitarian actors to do their work. She said that this is an “important and overdue step” by the Council.  The United Arab Emirates will vote for the resolution.  But a lasting humanitarian ceasefire is still needed, she said.

The Council then adopted resolution 2712 (2023) by a vote of 12 in favour to none against, with 3 abstentions (Russian Federation, United Kingdom, United States).

LINDA THOMAS-GREENFIELD (United States), speaking after the vote, said the world has watched with understandable frustration and increasing concern as the Security Council has been unable to speak out on this pressing matter of international peace and security.  “Honestly, I think many have given up hope that we would ever speak on this conflict.  But that’s exactly what we just did.  We got this done because most of us worked constructively, in good faith, to adopt a resolution.”  However, she is horrified that a few Council members still cannot bring themselves to condemn the barbaric terrorist attack that Hamas carried out against Israel on 7 October.  “What are they afraid of?” she asked.  “Let’s be crystal clear:  Hamas set this conflict in motion.”

The United States could not vote yes on a text that did not condemn Hamas or reaffirm the rights of all Member States to protect their citizens from terrorist attacks and will continue to urge the Council to condemn Hamas’ actions.  However, the United States did support many of the important provisions, she said, pointing out it is the first adopted text that mentions Hamas.  She fully supports the resolution’s call for the immediate and unconditional release of hostages held by Hamas and other groups.  The United States has also advocated for humanitarian pauses to allow for full, rapid, safe and unhindered access to civilians in Gaza.

She said her country has clearly stated its expectation that parties to the conflict will abide by their international law obligations.  “We’ve been clear at the highest levels:  Hamas’ actions do not lessen Israel’s responsibility to protect innocent people in Gaza,” she said.  “As Israel exercises its right and indeed its responsibility to protect its people from acts of terror, it must do so in a way that is consistent with the laws of war.  I want to be clear:  The United States does not want to see firefights in any hospitals.”  Ultimately, this resolution is a step forward, but its adoption alone will not save lives, she said.  “To save lives, we all need to support the heroic efforts of the UN and other humanitarian workers in Gaza,” she added.

EDWIGE KOUMBY MISSAMBO (Gabon) said that she voted in favour of the draft resolution, adding:  “I am delighted that our Council has been able to reach consensus, thus, foregrounding the best interest of these two peoples.”  Noting that the text ensures general protection of children — as persons not participating in hostilities — and their special protection as particularly vulnerable persons, she underscored that her country wants to contribute to improving the plight of children.  Recognizing that the text does not take into account all the legitimate concerns, she said it nevertheless represents major progress that could make a difference on the ground.  In this regard, she encouraged Member States to show greater engagement to silence the guns and establish responsibility.

BARBARA WOODWARD (United Kingdom) said that it is “right” that the Council is calling for a humanitarian pause for a period of days long enough to get life-saving aid to those who need it.  “This will save lives,” she stressed.  For its part, the United Kingdom has doubled its aid to help civilians in Gaza.  All parties must give civilians the protection that is their right under international law. This includes respecting the sanctity of hospitals.  She welcomed the resolution’s call for the immediate and unconditional release of Israeli hostages.  “It is unconscionable that Hamas continues to hold men, women and children, causing terrible fear and suffering for their families,” she said.  This resolution is necessary, though the United Kingdom regrets that it could not clearly condemn Hamas’ terrorist attacks of 7 October.  “The barbarity of those attacks should be clear to us all,” she said.  That is why the United Kingdom abstained today.

NICOLAS DE RIVIÈRE (France) said his country supported the resolution because the humanitarian situation in Gaza is “already catastrophic”.  France is fully mobilized to respond to the urgency of the situation.  The resolution mentions several essential needs:  food, water, fuel, and medicines, which must be delivered to the Gazan civilians.  He called for lasting, unhindered humanitarian access for their delivery in sufficient quantities and for the mobilization of adequate resources.

However, he regretted that several essential messages are not included in the resolution.  The Council must continue to work to achieve a broader expression, including condemnation of the Hamas attack, the recall of Israel’s right to defend itself and its population with absolute respect of international humanitarian law, a call for an immediate and lasting truce that could lead to a ceasefire, as well as a call for avoiding regional spillover.  There is a need for a decisive relaunching of negotiations on agreed parameters for a two-State solution.  “This Council must not remain silent on these elements; it must be demanding and up to what is at stake,” he said.

ANDRÉS EFREN MONTALVO SOSA (Ecuador) said his country voted in favour of the resolution because of its urgent and relevant elements, among them, the obligation to uphold international law and the establishment of safe, unhindered humanitarian access.  The draft just adopted focuses on urgent humanitarian needs due to the grave conflict in Gaza that was unleashed following the attacks by Hamas on 7 October.  “It is an essential first step by the Council,” he said, noting that the general text is a valuable starting point.  “But our work must continue,” he added.  Ecuador abstained on the amendment because the draft, which was the outcome of a negotiation process in which all Council members participated, should be preserved, he said, thanking Malta for its leadership.  He also acknowledged that some States avoided exercising what would have been a damaging veto.

ISHIKANE KIMIHIRO (Japan), noting that for nearly six weeks the Council remained silent as the conflict worsened to an unprecedented degree, said, “today, at last, we were able to act”.  Stating that he voted in favour of the draft resolution, he expressed appreciation for the ongoing diplomatic efforts made by key actors, including the United States.  “This is just the beginning,” he said, emphasizing that the Council needs to continue its engagement on this file to protect civilians — women, persons with disabilities, and children.  It must prevent the conflict from spreading and bring peace to the region.

PASCALE BAERISWYL (Switzerland) said that this first step by the Council comes belatedly.  She emphasized the plight of the victims affected by the Hamas terrorist attacks, highlighting the tragic loss of thousands of civilians in Israel and throughout the Occupied Palestinian Territory since 7 October.  Switzerland recognizes Israel’s right to ensure its defence and security.  “We call for the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages,” she said.  Their captivity in Gaza in appalling conditions for more than a month is unjustifiable, as were the acts of terror and indiscriminate attacks perpetrated by Hamas against Israeli civilians since 7 October.  Switzerland most firmly condemns these terrorist attacks.  “We will continue to work towards pursuing the Council’s work on the draft resolution of the 10 elected members which addresses the situation as a whole and to which much effort has been devoted in recent weeks,” she added.

DOMINGOS ESTÊVÃO FERNANDES (Mozambique) said his country is convinced this resolution is an important step towards mitigating the suffering of the Gazan people, but it does not address the fundamentals of the humanitarian crisis in Gaza.  Mozambique associates itself with the collective efforts to protect civilians, especially children, in full compliance with human rights law and international humanitarian law.  He called for an immediate, durable and sustained cessation of hostilities and a return to dialogue.  Israel and Palestine can only resolve their differences through peace and dialogue, he added.

FERIT HOXHA (Albania) said supporting peace efforts is the Security Council’s raison d’être and that when civilians are harmed anywhere in the world, the Council cannot stand idle.  Its inability to act in the last six weeks has been particularly distressing, he said.  “The world has been watching and waiting and hoping,” he said.  For that reason, Albania welcomed the adoption of the resolution, imperfect as it is.  “It is a strong message of hope and solidarity with those suffering,” he said, though he expressed regret it contained no clear and strong condemnation of Hamas.  “We need to face the truth:  the death toll among Palestinians civilians, including children and women, is unbearable and unjustified.  This death toll spiral must stop.”  It is important not to lose sight of the fact that Hamas is directly responsible for this situation, he said.

NORBERTO MORETTI (Brazil), welcoming the adoption of the draft resolution, said, “It was long overdue.  A response by this body commensurate with the gravity of the situation was urgent since day one — that is more than five weeks ago.”  Noting that its passage has been a “long and painful process”, he recalled that before the text adopted today, more comprehensive and timely resolutions have been attempted, including one presented by Brazil.  Successive vetoes, the spectre of “pocket vetoes” or the lack of a real negotiating process have prevented them.  As the Council failed repeatedly, the General Assembly acted on 27 October.  Echoing the Secretary-General’s call for a humanitarian ceasefire, he expressed regret that the draft resolution adopted falls short of bold and necessary steps. “We do hope that if truly and urgently implemented, today’s decision will at least mitigate the dreadful situation we have before us,” he added.

Mr. NEBENZYA (Russian Federation) said that his delegation abstained during the vote on the draft resolution.  Without supplies of fuel and in the next few hours, according to estimates by United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA), Gaza will be without any communication, without Internet and completely isolated from the outside world.  Meanwhile, the Israeli army is storming the Al-Shifa Hospital.  “We’re hearing worrisome reports about executions of medical personnel,” he said.  Humanitarian pauses are not and cannot be a replacement for a ceasefire, or even a truce. People who will be evacuated will find themselves under new shelling, he said.

From the very beginning of the current escalation in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the delegation of the United States has sabotaged any attempts to develop a balanced and depoliticized document aimed at adopting realistic and urgent steps to de-escalate the situation, he said. The United States justifies the collective punishment of Palestinians.  Washington, D.C. has consistently rejected draft resolutions that have demanded a humanitarian ceasefire.  The United States today expressed outrage that the Council cannot condemn the Hamas attack of 7 October and criticized those who have prevented this. “It was the United States on 18 October that vetoed the draft resolution of Brazil that specifically condemned that act,” he said.

The language of today’s resolution has been hollowed out, he went on to say, adding that it is a “disgrace” that the Council, which has a uniquely powerful toolbox, could only “squeeze out such a weak call”.  The Russian Federation is “extremely disappointed” that its amendment to the resolution was not adopted.  Some are not concerned about the effectiveness of the Council.  “The main thing is to say that the Council, so-to-speak, adopted something humanitarian,” he said, expressing concern that the resolution will not be implemented on the ground.  “Who will give approval for humanitarian pauses, who will monitor and verify them and what will be the consequences of them not being complied with?” he asked.  The document adopted will not contribute to overcoming the humanitarian crisis that the Gaza Strip finds itself in and its population is suffering.

Ms. NUSSEIBEH (United Arab Emirates) welcomed the adoption of the resolution, saying it is crucial that the Council has come together around the urgent need to protect civilians, especially children.  She recognized that its adoption was only possible through difficult negotiations and compromises on all sides, and she recognized Malta’s leadership and the commitment of each Council member on this, across their geographical divides.  She believes lives will be saved because of this work, but it only begins the Council’s response to this war and this crisis.  “Too much time has passed, too many people have been killed and too much destruction has been wrought.”  Where Hamas is not operating, Palestinians are also losing their lives on land internationally recognized as part of their future State.  During the past 40 days, almost 200 Palestinians have been killed in the occupied West Bank due to settler violence and raids.  This must stop and Israel must hold accountable those responsible.

She said Member States now need to use this resolution.  Her country will receive 1,000 Palestinian children and their families for medical treatment, with the first group hopefully arriving this week.  It hopes to establish an emergency field hospital in the Gaza Strip.  She called for Member States to now scale up assistance and for the Council to resolve the conflict.  “What emerges from the ruins of Gaza may be our last chance to save it,” she said, adding, however, that it will need everyone to work together.  The fate of peace and security in the Middle East is a shared responsibility, she said, adding that Israel’s lasting security will remain elusive if it is built on the continued denial of Palestinians’ inalienable right to self-determination.

ZHANG JUN (China) said his country has always supported efforts to promote a ceasefire, an end to fighting and the restoration of peace.  He welcomed any initiative to protect civilians and ease the humanitarian crisis, which is why China voted in favour of the resolution.  The Council should have adopted a more comprehensive and robust resolution much earlier.  But for reasons known to all, in particular, the repeated obstruction of a Permanent member, this resolution can serve as only a first step, based on minimum consensus.  Nonetheless, the resolution is of positive significance as an initial step towards a ceasefire, averting a greater humanitarian catastrophe, he added.

China looks forward to the immediate realization of durable humanitarian pauses, as called for in the text, to allow UN humanitarian agencies, the International Committee of the Red Cross and others to carry out full-scale humanitarian operations, to urgently search for and rescue missing children, to transfer and treat the critically injured, and to rehabilitate critical infrastructure. He expressed grave concern and strong opposition to the clear violations of international humanitarian law taking place in Gaza, including the siege of the Al-Shifa Hospital.  He urged Israel to immediately cease its military operations against civilian facilities, including hospitals, and restore water and fuel and other basic supplies.  “The Security Council must stand on the side of justice,” he said, adding that China will continue to work with all parties.

Ms. FRAZIER (Malta), taking the floor again, said that with the adoption of resolution 2712 (2023), the Council reaffirmed its responsibility and commitment to the safeguarding of civilian lives, especially those of children. “What we have achieved today is an important first step,” she stressed, emphasizing that her country — throughout its term as an elected member of the Council — will remain steadfast in its commitment to the protection of civilians and the plight of children in armed conflict.

RIYAD H. MANSOUR, Permanent Observer for the State of Palestine, said that the Security Council should have called for a ceasefire a long time ago.  “Gaza bleeds. Death, devastation, destruction everywhere. No one was spared,” he said.  The Council should have been convinced that there is no military solution, especially one that relies on the commission of atrocities, and it should have advanced political ones.  Pointing to the condemnations missing from the humanitarian resolution focused on children, he emphasized the killing by Israel of 11,000 Palestinians, including 5,000 children; indiscriminate attacks; assaults on hospitals and schools; killing of United Nations staff, journalists and doctors; as well as the racist Israeli propaganda methods.

Operative paragraph 1 of the text demands all parties to comply with international law, he said, asking whether Israel has ever been held accountable for continuously committing crimes against the Palestinian people and dismissing decades of calls for respecting the law.  “Are you going to hold Israel accountable for rejecting the resolution you adopted this afternoon,” he asked.  The bombings and incursions must stop now.  Humanitarian aid must come in now. Fuel must come in.  Stressing that millions of lives hang in the balance, he added: “This madness must be brought to an end.”  Ceasing the bombing will facilitate the delivery of humanitarian aid, rescue operations for those trapped under the rubble, including children, proper burials for the deceased and the release of those held in captivity.

Civilians, who are protected under international law, suffer the most in Gaza, he said, describing the situation as “a failure of humanity of terrifying magnitude.”  Stop the killing, stop the forced displacement, allow humanitarian aid in and protect civilians and civilian infrastructure, he urged.  These should not be words in a resolution, but a reality on the ground.  He went on to warn against allowing Israel’s narrative — which justifies killing of Palestinians without accountability — to dominate.  “There is an alternative reality in which Palestinians are free and no Palestinian and no Israeli is killed.  It is time for it to prevail. It is time for peace,” he concluded.

BRETT JONATHAN MILLER (Israel) commended the Council for calling for an immediate release of the 239 hostages.  However, the resolution will sadly “fall on deaf ears” when it comes to Hamas.  On 7 October, Hamas terrorists launched a barbaric invasion into Israel, murdering, raping, and brutalizing innocent civilians.  Since then, the Council has convened on the matter almost 10 times and still has not succeeded in condemning Hamas’ 7 October massacre. Today’s resolution focuses solely on the humanitarian situation in Gaza.  “It makes no mention of what led up to this moment,” he said.  Hamas has made it clear that given the chance, it will commit its atrocities again.  “They have shown the world that the genocidal rhetoric is not hyperbole, but an oath to annihilate Israel by any means,” he said.

“This is not about retaliation, or revenge for Hamas’ violence, it is Israel upholding the right to self-defence, ensuring that such horrors are never repeated,” he emphasized.  Hamas is a jihadist organization “hell-bent” on Israel’s destruction through the targeting of Israeli civilians, and the use of Gazan civilians as human shields. Despite this Council’s intentions Hamas “does not care for your resolutions, or your demands”.  Israel has already implemented humanitarian pauses during which Gazan civilians can temporarily evacuate the active war zone.  Hamas, on the other hand, murders Gazans as they try to evacuate.  Israel has approved the entry of nearly 1,400 trucks with thousands of tons worth of aid.  Meanwhile, Hamas is holding food, fuel, and medical supplies for its terror machine.

Yesterday, Israel supplied neonatal incubators and medical supplies to Al-Shifa Hospital, he said.  Just two days ago, Israel handed over 300 litres of fuel to Al-Shifa Hospital.  Hamas prevented the hospital staff from accepting it. Hamas’ goal is to intensify and deteriorate the humanitarian situation in Gaza to broadcast Palestinian hardship to the world, and by doing so, exploit this very body to tie Israel’s hands. Bringing the hostages home is Israel’s top priority.  Israel will continue to do whatever it takes to accomplish this goal.  “Should Hamas choose to lay down their arms, turn themselves in, and hand over the hostages unscathed, this war would end immediately,” he said.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

In the days since Hamas militants stormed into Israel early Oct. 7, a flood of videos and photos purporting to show the conflict have filled social media, making it difficult for onlookers from around the world to sort fact from fiction.

While plenty of real imagery and accounts of the ensuing carnage have emerged, they have been intermingled with users pushing false claims and misrepresenting videos from other events.

Among the fabrications, users have shared false claims that a top Israeli commander had been kidnapped, circulated a false video imitating a BBC News report, and pushed old and unrelated clips of Russian President Vladimir Putin with inaccurate English captions.

Here is a closer look at the misinformation spreading online — and the facts.

CLAIM: Videos taken one day apart show a Palestinian “crisis actor” pretending to be seriously injured in a hospital bed one day and completely fine the next.

THE FACTS: Two different people appear in the videos. In addition, the video of the injured man in a hospital bed dates to August.

The videos are being shared to falsely claim an injured man is an actor playing a Palestinian victim.

A post on X, formerly known as Twitter, puts two videos side by side. In one, a man lies seriously injured in a hospital bed with two other men at his side. In the other, a man is talking into a camera while walking through wreckage after an attack in Gaza. The post claims the videos show the same man, with the one in the hospital taken a day earlier.

“Palestinian blogger ‘miraculously’ healed in one day from ‘Israeli bombing’. Yesterday, he was ‘hospitalized,’ today, he is walking and walking like nothing happened,” reads the post on X, with more than 9,000 likes.

But the videos show two different people and the hospital video predates the latest Israel-Hamas war.

The video of the man speaking to the camera is Saleh Aljafarawi, from Gaza. Aljafarawi posted the original video on Oct. 25 to his Instagram account. “More than 30 missiles landed in front of my eyes,” he wrote in the caption with the video. Aljafarawi didn’t respond to the AP’s request for comment. Aljafarawi also has a YouTube channel where he describes himself a Palestinian living in Gaza.

The video of the young man in the hospital bed had been online at least August with the earliest version available posted on Aug. 18, 2023, on TikTok. Another video from a different angle was shared a day earlier on TikTok.

One of the hashtags from the Aug. 18 video reads, “#Nour_Shams_Camp_”, which is a refugee camp located in the West Bank. An Aug. 25 report from the International Solidarity Movement, a Palestinian-led group, shows a photo of the same man in the hospital video. The report identifies him as 16-year-old Mohammed Zendiq, whose leg was amputated at the hospital after he was injured during July 24 clashes at the camp. Other outlets reported on the events at the time.

— Associated Press writer Karena Phan in Los Angeles contributed this report.

___
CLAIM: A video shows a large number of U.S. Marines arriving at an airport in Israel amid the latest Israel-Hamas war.

THE FACTS: The video is from 2022 and shows soldiers from the U.S. Army’s 101st Airborne Division arriving in Romania.

The footage shows soldiers dressed in fatigues getting off of a plane at night, carrying their belongings and walking across the tarmac.

One post with the video on X, formerly known as Twitter, had more than 9,000 likes with text that reads: “HAPPENING NOW: Thousands of U.S. Marines Just Landed in Israel WW3 HIGH ALERT”

However the video doesn’t show Marines nor Israel, and it isn’t recent.

The original can be found on the Defense Department’s media distribution website, which says it shows U.S. Army soldiers arriving in Romania in June last year. “101st Airborne Division (Air Assault) Soldiers arrive in Mihail Kogainiceani, Romania, June 28, 2022,” reads the video’s description.

The site says the unit was there “to reinforce NATO’s eastern flank” and conduct multinational exercises with allies across Europe.

Hours after the Oct. 7 attack by Hamas on Israel, the U.S. did begin moving warships and aircrafts to the region. In an interview on “60 Minutes” that aired Sunday, Vice President Kamala Harris said the U.S. has no intention to send combat troops into Israel or Gaza.

— Karena Phan.

___
CLAIM: A major mosque in Iran raised a black flag to call Muslims to war over Israel’s attacks on Gaza.

THE FACTS: The Imam Reza shrine said the flag was raised as a symbol of mourning for the lives lost in Israel’s strikes on Gaza. Experts on Islam and Iran confirmed the flag includes a passage from the Quran that is meant to comfort Muslims that their sacrifices will one day be rewarded.

Social media users are sharing the false claim alongside images and videos of the distinctive gold dome of the shrine — a major pilgrimage site for Shiite Muslims in Iran’s northeast that includes a mosque, library and other institutions — with a black banner flying on a flagpole.

“BREAKING: The Black Flag has been raised over Razavi Shrine in Mashhad, Khorasan province, Iran,” wrote one Facebook user who shared the image on Oct. 18, using an alternate name for the complex. “This is a call for war or vengeance.”

Others claimed the black flag and its Farsi inscription was meant to herald the coming of the Mahdi, the final leader believed to appear at the end of times to lead Muslim people.

But the black flag isn’t a call for war, and neither the flag’s text nor the shrine’s statement about the banner references the coming of the Mahdi or the end of time.

In fact, an announcement on the shrine’s English-language Facebook page on Oct. 17 specifically describes it as a “mourning flag” that was raised in response to the deadly blast that rocked a hospital in Hamas-controlled Gaza that day.

“In an unprecedented gesture and by the order of the custodian of Astan Quds Razavi, the black flag has been hoisted above the illuminated and pure Razavi dome, and drum beating will not be played tomorrow,” the post said, including #sorrow #mourning #sadness #grief and other hashtags.

Islamic and Iranian experts confirmed the flag includes a line from the Quran roughly translated as “help from Allah and an imminent victory” or “conquest from Allah and victory is near.”

That phrase isn’t traditionally used to declare war, but meant to bring comfort and hope to those struggling or engaged in battle that their sacrifice is not in vain and that Allah will grant them victory eventually, they said.

Hamid Dabashi, professor of Iranian Studies at Columbia University in New York, said the Quranic verse, in the context of the shrine’s Facebook post, means “solidarity” with the Palestinian cause and not an outright declaration of war against Israel.

“To me it says nothing more than the obvious: the ruling government in Iran supports Hamas and the Islamic Jihad,” he wrote in an email. “Nothing more, nothing less.”

The Middle East Media Research Institute, a Washington-based think tank founded by Israeli analysts, agreed, noting that Islamic militants tend to use a different passage from the Quran when declaring war.

The organization noted that statements from the Iran-backed Iraqi militias claiming responsibility for recent attacks on U.S. bases in Syria and Iraq open with this Quranic verse: “Permission (to fight) is given to those upon whom war is made because they are oppressed, and most surely Allah is well able to grant them victory.”

— Associated Press writer Philip Marcelo in New York contributed this report.

___
CLAIM: A video shows North Korean leader Kim Jong Un saying in a speech that he blames President Joe Biden for the latest Israel-Hamas war.

THE FACTS: The video is from 2020 and the version currently circulating online features incorrect English captions. The footage actually shows Kim celebrating the 75th anniversary of the founding of the Korean Workers’ Party; he doesn’t reference the conflict in the Middle East or Biden at any point.

In the misleading video circulating online, the English captions claim Kim says: “Under the Biden administration, conflicts erupt yearly. This year a war begins between Israel and Palestine.”

“I’m afraid that if the Biden admin does not cease to exist in the next election, World War 3 may begin,” the captions continue. “Who knows what next year’s war will be. I support Donald Trump for President in 2024. Good Luck to Mr. Trump.”

The video was shared on Instagram and TikTok, where one post garnered more than 223,000 likes.

However, the video is old and the captions are completely inaccurate.

Clips and images from the same speech can be seen in news reports from October 2020 about an event celebrating the 75th anniversary of the Korean Workers Party.

A transcript of the full speech translated to English by The National Committee on North Korea, a U.S.-based organization, does not mention anything about the Israel-Hamas war nor the 2024 U.S. presidential race.

Multiple Korean speakers and an expert who reviewed the portion of the speech circulating online also confirmed Kim says nothing of the sort in the footage.

Instead, Kim thanks his people and his military, saying: “The patriotic and heroic commitment shown by our People’s Army soldiers on the unexpected frontlines of epidemic prevention and natural disaster recovery this year is something that evokes tears of gratitude from everyone.”

Ji-Young Lee, a professor of Korean Studies at American University who confirmed the captions are inaccurate, noted that the surprise attack on Israel by Hamas militants did create concerns in South Korea about a similar assault from the North.

— Karena Phan.

___
CLAIM: The Israeli military confirmed it bombed a hospital in Gaza in a social media post written in Arabic.

THE FACTS: A screenshot circulating online shows a Facebook post from an account posing as the Israeli military. No such post exists on the military’s actual social media pages and its top Arabic-speaking spokesperson confirmed his office has issued no such statement.

In the wake of the Oct. 17 deadly blast at al-Ahli hospital in Gaza, social media users shared the screenshot, claiming it is from a member of the Israeli military’s Arabic-speaking media relations team.

The user’s profile image bears the blue-and-white emblem of the spokesperson’s office, which features radio waves atop the Israeli military’s traditional symbol of an olive branch-wrapped sword.

The post, written in Arabic, suggests the Jewish nation said it bombed the hospital because the Gaza City medical facility lacked supplies and staff.

“Israeli official facebook post: ‘Due to the lack of medical equipment and the lack of medical staff, it was decided to bomb the Baptist Hospital in Gaza and give them euthanasia’,” wrote one user on X, the social media platform formerly known as Twitter, in a post translating the screenshot. Similar posts were also widely shared on TikTok and other social media platforms.

But the purported statement wasn’t penned by the Israeli military’s press office, its top Arabic-speaking spokesperson confirmed this week.

“Just to clarify: I did not issue any statement or comment regarding the Baptist Hospital in Gaza,” wrote Avichay Adraee, head of the Arab media branch of the Israeli military’s Spokesperson’s Unit, in a post on X from Oct. 17, when the blast occurred. “All the news circulating in my name comes from the Hamas media outlets and is completely false.”

The office on Oct. 19 confirmed the post did not come from the military’s official Arabic page, saying in an emailed statement: “The IDF has made it very clear that there was no IDF strike on the hospital.”

What’s more, the Israeli military’s press office doesn’t use its own logo on its actual social media accounts, unlike the fake account.

The unit’s separate Facebook pages in English and Hebrew, as well as its X account written in Farsi, for example, all use the military’s main symbol. That gold-colored emblem features the olive branch-wrapped sword with the Star of David in the background.

Meanwhile Adraee’s social media accounts, which are the main channel for the Israeli military’s messages in Arabic, feature his profile picture and a maroonlogo consisting of five swords with flames in the background as its cover photo.

The original fake account and post on Facebook also appear to have been deleted as of Oct. 19. Spokespersons for Meta, the parent company of Facebook, didn’t reply to an email seeking comment.

There were conflicting accusations of who was responsible for the hospital blast, with Hamas officials in Gaza blaming an Israeli airstrike and Israel saying it was caused by a an errant rocket launched by Palestinian militants. U.S. and French intelligence services also concluded it was likely caused by a misfired rocket. An AP analysis of video, photos and satellite imagery, as well as consultation with experts, showed the cause was likely a rocket launched from Palestinian territory that misfired in the air and crashed to the ground. However, a definitive conclusion could not be reached.

— Philip Marcelo.

___
CLAIM: A video shows Qatar’s emir threatening to cut off the world’s natural gas supply if Israel doesn’t stop bombing Gaza.

THE FACTS: Qatar’s ruling emir, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, says no such thing in the widely circulating clip, which is more than 6 years old. A spokesperson for the Qatari government also confirmed that neither the emir nor any other government official has threatened to cut off exports in response to the conflict.

Many online are sharing the video of the Persian Gulf nation’s ruler, falsely claiming it shows him saying in Arabic that he’s willing to halt the distribution of its gas reserves to achieve his desired end to the latest Israel-Hamas war.

“BREAKING: Qatar is threatening to create a global gas shortage in support of Palestine,” wrote one user who posted the video on X, the social media platform formerly known as Twitter. “If the bombing of Gaza doesn’t stop, we will stop gas supply of the world.”

But Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani says nothing of the sort in the video. The 7-second clip is actually a tiny snippet from his opening speech at the Doha Forum in 2017.

Marc Owen Jones, a professor of Middle East studies at Hamad bin Khalifa University in Doha, the capital of Qatar, confirmed that the emir touches briefly on Palestinians in the widely shared clip, but doesn’t make any threats related to the current conflict.

Instead the emir, in his remarks, urged the international community to take more steps to address the region’s refugee crisis, news outlets reported at the time.

“The exact translation is: ‘The issue of Palestine, I’ll begin by saying it’s a case of a people uprooted from their lands, and displaced from their nation’,” Jones wrote in an email.

Qatar’s government on Oct. 16 confirmed the clip dates to 2017 and is being misrepresented.

“This is yet another case of an online disinformation against Qatar – such a statement has never been made and never would be,” wrote the country’s International Media Office in an email. “Qatar does not politicize its LNG supplies or any economic investment.”

Qatar is one of the world’s top natural gas producers. It controlled the third-largest natural gas reserves and was the second largest exporter of liquified natural gas, or LNG, in 2021, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.

What’s more, the country has been working in recent years to use its sizable resources to build ties with other nations, not antagonize them, according to experts.

Patrick De Haan, head of petroleum analysis at GasBuddy, a Boston-based company that tracks gas prices nationwide, pointed to a deal Qatar’s state energy company just announced to supply French energy company TotalEnergies with 3.5 million tons of natural gas annually for the next 27 years.

“Qatar has been securing investment since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine pushed Europe to find new sources of natural gas and quickly,” he wrote in an email. “They’re making deals left and right.”

— Philip Marcelo.

___ CLAIM: A video shows a BBC News report confirming Ukraine provided weapons to Hamas.

THE FACTS: The widely shared video clip is fabricated, officials with the BBC and Bellingcat, an investigative news website that is cited in the video as the source, confirm.

The clip, which includes the BBC’s distinctive block-text logo, purports to show a story from the outlet about a recent report from Bellingcat on Ukraine providing arms to Hamas.

“Bellingcat: Ukrainian military offensive failure and HAMAS attack linked,” reads the text over the video, which has more than 2,500 comments and 110,000 views on the messaging service Telegram. “The Palestinians purchased firearms, ammunition, drones and other weapons.”

But neither the BBC nor Bellingcat has reported any evidence to support the notion that Ukraine funneled arms to Hamas.

“We’ve reached no such conclusions or made any such claims,” Bellingcat wrote Oct. 10 in a post on X that included screengrabs of the fake report. “We’d like to stress that this is a fabrication and should be treated accordingly.”

Eliot Higgins, the Amsterdam-based organization’s founder, noted in a separate post on X that the claims have been amplified by Russian social media users.

Nassim Nicholas Taleb, a New York University professor briefly shown near the end of the video, also disputed the clip’s suggestion that he’s said the U.S. might leave NATO if the arms claims prove true.

“Entirely fake. Never said that,” the distinguished professor of risk engineering wrote in an email.

Spokespersons for the BBC didn’t respond to emails seeking comment, but Shayan Sardarizadeh, a reporter with the organization’s fact checking unit, confirmed in a post on X that the video is not real.

Ukrainian officials have similarly dismissed the notion that its country’s arms have somehow found their way to Hamas. The country’s military intelligence agency, in an Oct. 9 post on its official Facebook page, accused Russia of plotting a disinformation campaign around these claims.

Experts say there is also no evidence of Hamas making any claims about receiving arms from Ukraine, nor would it make sense for Kyiv to provide them.

“I see no reason Ukraine would do this,” said Michael O’Hanlon, director of foreign policy research at the Brookings Institution, a Washington think tank. “Starting with the fact that Kiev is in the business of obtaining weapons and not giving them away.”

— Associated Press writers Philip Marcelo in New York and Hanna Arhirova in Kyiv contributed this report.

___
CLAIM: Video of a young actor being filmed lying in a pool of fake blood shows propaganda being created for use in the Israel-Hamas war.

THE FACTS: The video is behind-the-scenes footage from the making of “Empty Place,” a short film focused on the story of Ahmad Manasra, a Palestinian who was arrested at age 13 in 2015 in relation to the stabbing of two Israelis.

Social media users on both sides of the latest Israel-Hamas war are sharing the video, each falsely alleging that it’s proof the other group is creating propaganda about their own.

In the clip, a young actor lies on a sidewalk covered in fake blood, his right leg bent backward, as a film crew works around him. Other actors mill about dressed as soldiers and in garb worn by many Orthodox Jewish men.

“See how Israelis are making fake videos saying that Palestine Freedom Fighters killed children,” reads one tweet that had received more than 5,600 likes and more than 4,400 shares as of Oct. 11.

An Instagram post claimed the opposite, stating: “These terrorists are dressing up as JEWISH soldiers to create fake videos about Israeli soldiers! Faking Propaganda!”

But neither allegation is correct. The video shows footage from the making of the 2022 short film directed by Awni Eshtaiwe, a filmmaker based in the West Bank. The scene being shot begins about 1 minute and 10 seconds into the approximately 2 minute film.

Mohamad Awawdeh, a cinematographer listed in the film’s credits as a camera assistant, posted the behind-the-scenes footage to TikTok in April 2022, around the time the film was released. A caption on the post, written in Arabic, explains that the scene being filmed in the video shows Manasra being attacked. Awawdeh posted the same footage to Instagram on June 30.

— Associated Press writer Melissa Goldin in New York contributed this report.

___
CLAIM: Nimrod Aloni, a top general in the Israeli army, was captured by Hamas militants during a deadly incursion Oct. 7 into southern Israeli towns near the Gaza Strip.

THE FACTS: There’s no truth to this claim, a spokesperson for the Israeli military confirmed. Aloni was seen Oct. 8 at a meeting of top Israeli military officials.

The erroneous claim that Aloni was one of the hostages taken by Hamas spread widely online after the militant group attacked Israel.

“Palestinian resistance fighters capture Israeli commander Nimrod Aloni along with dozens of other Israeli soldiers as the resistance fighters attacked neighbouring occupied towns and Israeli check posts near Gaza,” stated one Instagram post that received more than 43,000 likes.

But Rear Adm. Daniel Hagari, the Israeli military’s chief military spokesman, told reporters Oct. 7 that claims Aloni was captured are “not true.”

Aloni clearly appears 10 seconds into a video posted to the Israeli military’s official YouTube channel of top officials discussing the war on Oct. 8. The date can be seen on a slide in the background. The military also published online four images from the meeting. The one on the lower right shows Aloni on the far right.

The Israeli army confirmed to The Associated Press that Aloni is the man in the video and image.

— Melissa Goldin.

___
CLAIM: A video shows Hamas fighters parachuting onto a sports field before attacking Israeli citizens during the group’s surprise Oct. 7 attack on Israel.

THE FACTS: While Hamas did employ paragliders to get some fighters across the border between Gaza and southern Israel, the footage of the sports field shows parachute jumpers in Cairo and has been online since at least September.

The clip shows people strapped to multi-colored parachutes descending onto a crowded sports field complex filled with children and families, many in red sports jerseys.

“Hamas paraglided amongst Israeli citizens and proceeded to massacre them,” text on the video clip reads. One post of the misleading footage on TikTok was viewed more than 38,000 times.

But this footage has been online since at least Sept. 27, when it was posted to TikTok with the location tag “Egypt.”

Details of the video also point to Egypt as the location — a person is wearing a blue shirt that reads “El Nasr SC” on the back, the name of a sporting club in northeastern Cairo.

Images of the club on Google Maps match the scene of the video — as well as several other clips of the event from the same TikTok user — with both showing a bright blue fence around a sporting ground next to a paved area with green and blue plastic seats.

The parachuters land on a larger soccer pitch surrounded by tall field lights. The field matches photos posted to the club’s Facebook page and footage of its soccer team’s matches, including a distinctive red building with a blue fence on top at one end that can be seen in the TikTok clip at around 19 seconds.

Other TikTok users shared footage of a parachuting similar scene around the same time, with “El Nasr” in the caption in Arabic.

The crowd of onlookers in the clip circulating online also doesn’t seem distressed by the arrival of the parachuters, as one might expect if they were an invading force. In fact, many women and children are seen running towards them, phones in hand taking videos and photos of the aerial display.

___
CLAIM: Two videos show Russian President Vladimir Putin warning the U.S. to “stay away” from the latest Israel-Hamas war.

THE FACTS: Bothvideos circulating online are months-old clips of Putin speaking about the Russia-Ukraine war, not the conflict in the Middle East, which have been miscaptioned in English.

Both videos show Putin speaking in Russian, with false English captions saying he was warning the U.S. to refrain from helping the Jewish state.

“America wants to Destroy israel as we destroy ukraine In past,” the captions on one video state. “I am warning America. Russia will help palestine and america can do nothing.” One TikTok post that shared the clip had received approximately 11,600 views as of Oct. 9.

A caption on another video of Putin, filmed in a different location, similarly reads: “I am warning america to stay Away from palestine israel war.”

But the two clips long predate the latest Israel-Hamas war and make no mention of Israel at all.

The first shows Putin at a meeting of Russia’s Human Rights Council in December 2022, where, amid discussions about the war in Ukraine, he responded to a question about the country’s potential use of nuclear weapons, as the AP reported at the time. The footage was featured by multiple other newsoutlets with similar translations.

In the second, Putin is speaking at a February 2023 event marking the 80th anniversary of the World War II Soviet victory over Nazi German forces in the battle of Stalingrad. In his remarks, he compared this threat to Germany’s then-recent decision to supply Ukraine with tanks, the AP reported at the time. Several media outlets also featured the footage in similar reports.

In reality, Putin has condemned the Oct. 7 attack by Hamas militants on towns in southern Israel while also warning Israel against blockading the Gaza Strip. He has cast the war as a failure of U.S. peacemaking efforts, accusing Washington of opting for economic “handouts” to the Palestinians while abandoning efforts to help create a Palestinian state.

— Melissa Goldin.

___
This is part of AP’s effort to address widely shared misinformation, including work with outside companies and organizations to add factual context to misleading content that is circulating online. Learn more about fact-checking at AP.



